---
layout: post
title:  "Why Coding"
date:   2016-07-16
---

After graduating college I worked a number of odd jobs all with the hopes of one day becoming a screenwriter. I worked as a Assistant Teacher at a Daycare Center, I resigned when it became painfully clear that working with 4 year olds was not for me. I was unemployed for about 5 months during which I volunteered at an LGBTQ Community Center in Queens as a volunteer coordinator, social media volunteer, and events coordinator. I also volunteered at the [All Stars Project](https://allstars.org/) as a Video Editor. While volunteering I was able to get a job one day a week as a social media coordinator and marketer at a taxi company in Queens. While doing all of these things I was also applying for my next job.

About five months later I landed a job in [Apple Retail](https://www.apple.com/jobs/us/retail.html). It was great, I got to learn about the technology and always was in the know about the features of Apple products. It tapped into my love of technology and it also opened me up to a different level of teaching -- mostly with adults, but really with people of all ages. It was great! I stayed for about a year and 8 months then decided to switch careers to HR to try and help people.

I began working as an HR Specialist for a nonprofit. HR seemed to be very different than I thought it would be and though I was helping some people I was really in an admin role. Copy and pasting for the majority of my day. This was not what I wanted to be doing to say the least. Occasionally I'd get the opportunity to introduce a technological solution to one of our processes and something would light up in me, especially when it was challenging and being able to see the difference it made in our workflow was awesome.

About a year and a half into my position I won tickets to the [World Maker Faire](http://makerfaire.com/new-york/). It was incredible, people from all walks of life were displaying their technological accomplishments. My interest in technology was immediately reignited. I began down the tech road by joining Meetup groups and learning as much as I could. I didn't always know what folks were talking about but I'd write down unfamiliar terms and look them up later.

Eventually “Coding Bootcamp” was a term I started to hear in all of my different tech circles. So I began my research. I attended info sessions, entrance exam prep courses, read many, many reviews and talked to various coding Bootcamp students and alumni. One of the things that kept coming up was that people had to quit their job to attend these camps. At the time I was living with my partner (which meant I was responsible for half the bills including rent), working at a nonprofit, and honestly one paycheck away from poverty, needless to say quitting wasn't an option. I started looking into other options. I came across [Anyone Can Learn to Code](http://anyonecanlearntocode.com/) from a [Women Who Code](https://www.womenwhocode.com/) email. And what caught my eye was, "become a web developer without quitting your job." How was this possible? I wasn't sure but I applied and was accepted after a few weeks. What I loved about this camp aside from the class schedule, was that there wasn't this expectation for potential students to know everything which seemed to be the case with some of the other Bootcamps I was looking into.

I had been teaching myself to code for about a year prior to applying and had completed the JavaScript track on [Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/). The exercise consisted of watching several videos and completing the Ruby code. After 7 hours I felt so accomplished! A few months after being accepted I started the course and am currently in my fourth week as I write this. I’m excited for a new career in web development and I can honestly say it's been the best decision I've made for my future in a long time.
